The Fox and the Grapes

A Fox one day spied a beautiful bunch of ripe grapes hanging from a vine trained
along the branches of a tree. The grapes seemed ready to burst with juice, and
the Fox's mouth watered as he gazed longingly at them.

The bunch hung from a high branch, and the Fox had to jump for it. The first
time he jumped he missed it by a long way. So he retreated a little and made a
longer jump, but again he missed. Again and again he tried, but at last had to
give it up.

Then he walked away with his nose in the air, saying: "I am sure they are sour
anyway."

It is easy to despise what you cannot have.

The Tortoise and the Hare

A Hare was boasting of his speed before the other animals. "I have never yet
been beaten," said he, "when I put forth my full speed. I challenge anyone here
to race with me."

The Tortoise said quietly, "I accept your challenge."

"That is a good joke," said the Hare; "I could dance around you all the way."

"Keep your boasting until you have beaten me," answered the Tortoise. "Shall we
race?"

So a course was fixed and a start was made. The Hare darted almost out of sight
at once, but soon stopped and, to show his contempt for the Tortoise, lay down
to have a nap. The Tortoise plodded on and plodded on, and when the Hare awoke
from his nap, he saw the Tortoise just near the winning-post and could not run
up in time to save the race. Then the Tortoise said:

"Slow and steady wins the race."

The Lion and the Mouse

A Lion was awakened from sleep by a Mouse running over his face. Rising up
angrily, he caught him and was about to kill him, when the Mouse piteously
entreated, saying: "If you would only spare my life, I would be sure to repay
your kindness." The Lion laughed at the idea of a Mouse being able to help him.

But not long after, the Lion was caught in a trap, and the hunters who wanted
to carry him alive to the King tied him to a tree while they went in search of
a wagon to carry him on. Just then the little Mouse happened to pass by, and
seeing the sad plight in which the Lion was, went up to him and soon gnawed
away the ropes that bound the King of the Beasts.

"You laughed when I said I would repay you," said the Mouse. "Now you see that
even a Mouse can help a Lion."

The North Wind and the Sun

The North Wind and the Sun disputed as to which was the most powerful, and
agreed that he should be declared the victor who could first strip a wayfaring
man of his clothes.

The North Wind first tried his power and blew with all his might, but the
keener his blasts, the closer the Traveler wrapped his cloak around him, until
at last, resigning all hope of victory, the Wind called upon the Sun to see
what he could do. The Sun suddenly shone out with all his warmth. The Traveler
no sooner felt his genial rays than he took off one garment after another, and
at last, fairly overcome with heat, undressed and bathed in a stream that lay
in his path.

Persuasion is better than force.
